Hello and welcome back
to the course on Deep Learning.
Today we're kicking off Convolutional Neural Networks.
This is gonna be exciting, let's dive straight into it.
We're going to start off with an image.
What do you see when you look at this image?
Do you see a person looking at you
or do you see a person looking to the right?
You can see that your brain is struggling,
it's struggling to adjust.
If you look to the right side of the image,
just look at the right border of the image,
you'll see a person looking to the right.
If you look at the left border of the image,
you'll see a person looking at you.
This just proves that what our brain is looking for
when we see things is features.
Depending on the features that it sees,
depending on the features that you process,
you categorize things in certain ways.
So when you look on the right side of the image,
you see certain features of a person looking to the right
because they're closer to your center of focus
and, therefore, your brain classifies it
as a person looking to the right.
When you look to the left side of the image,
you see more features of a person looking at you
and, therefore, your brain classifies it as such.
So let's have a look at another one.
This is a very famous image,
you probably have already seen it,
but what do you see here?
Some people will say that they see
a young lady wearing a dress looking away,
some people will say they see
an old lady wearing a scarf on her head looking down.
So, I'm gonna point these features out
and you'll see that'll become very obvious.
This is the face of the young lady looking away,
she's looking into the distance, that's her coat,
that's her hair, that's her little feather in her hair.
And, on the other hand,
this is the head of the old lady looking down,
that's her nose, that's her mouth, that's her chin,
that's the scarf on her head, and she's looking down.
So, as you can see, two in one
and, depending on which features your brain picks up,
it will switch between classifying the image
as one or the other.
The oldest one of these illusions
recorded in the printed work is this one,
it's the duck with the rabbit.
So is this a duck or is this a rabbit?
Another example.
And now I'm gonna show you an image which will,
just for a second,
just look at it and see what emotions
or what kind of experience, visual experience,
you go through.
So, what do you see?
Do you feel like a bit, not dizzy, but a bit dazzled?
Like your brain is trying to understand what it is,
what it is, it's trying to,
it's jumping between her eyes, up and down, eyes.
It's a classic example of when there are certain features
where it could be this, it could be that,
but your brain cannot decide because both seem plausible.
So, basically, all these examples
illustrate to us how the brain works,
that it processes certain features on an image
or on whatever you see in real life
and it classifies that as such.
And you've probably been in situations
when you look over your shoulder quickly
and you see something you think it's,
I don't know, it's like a ball,
but it turns out to be a cat,
or you think it's a car but it turns out to be a shadow,
things like that.
That's because you don't have enough time
to process those features or you don't have enough features
to classify things as such.
And this is, for me, this is very interesting
because what we're going to be doing
with convolutional neural networks is very similar
and you'll find that the way
that computers are going to be processing images
is going to be extremely similar
to the way we are processing images.
So it's very valuable to understand
and just kind of remember these things
that this is how we do it.
And I'm going to take this lady off your screens
because she's probably already freaking you out by now.
So here's something different, here's an experiment.
An experiment done on computers,
on convolutional neural networks,
so we're slowly moving now from humans to computers.
This slide is from a talk by Geoffrey Hinton.
And here you have, basically,
it describes an experiment that he had done
on some convolutional neural networks
that he had trained up.
So, here you see three images
and we're gonna go through them left to right
and see how you would classify them
and then see them how the computer classified them.
So, on the left, what do you think this is?
You probably said cheetah and you would be right,
and this is what the computer said.
Right away, right off the bat,
we're going to learn how to read these images
because, if you're going to go deep
into convolutional neural networks, no pun intended,
if you're going to start learning more and more
about them and using them, you'll see a lot of these,
and I've actually seen people read them incorrectly.
So, here at the top, cheetah is what it actually is,
so that's the actual correct label of the image,
that's what the label of the image is,
regardless of any processing and computer vision.
And then here are the guesses,
the top four or five sometimes guesses of the algorithm
and they're given the probability.
So the computer said, or the neural network said cheetah,
leopard, snow leopard or Egyptian cat,
it could be one of the four,
and cheetah has the highest vote.
And throughout this part of the course
you'll understand what these votes mean
and how they are derived.
But for now it's pretty intuitive, right?
It's a cheetah in reality
and the neural network guessed right,
it said with a high probability, about 95-99%,
it's a cheetah.
Then, the second one, what do you think that is?
That is a bullet train.
And the neural network was able to distinguish
between bullet train, passenger car,
subway train, electric locomotive.
Those are the top choices,
of course it had many more options.
These neural networks learn to distinguish
from not just four categories,
from dozens, thousands of categories at the same time.
So those are the four options that it picked.
So that's a bullet train and it's a bullet train.
So, what do you think the last one is?
There are a couple of options,
it's not very clear what it is.
It could be a frying pan, could be a magnifying glass,
it could be even maybe a pair of scissors, some might say.
Well, the neural network said it was a pair of scissors.
But you can see how you can go wrong here.
First of all, it's not a very clear image,
and also you can see that
the probabilities are not as clear here,
so the neural network was a bit confused,
a bit indecisive, just as we are.
It said scissors with the highest probability
but then it had hand glass, which it actually was,
not so far away on the second place,
and frying pan, stethoscope.
So, basically, here you can see
that scissors was its first guess
but the correct option was number two
and that's why it's highlighted in red.
So there we go,
that's what neural networks are already capable of.
And this is actually quite an old slide,
this was several years ago.
Now they're even better and you will see that
from the practical application
that you'll be coding together with Hadelin.
But now let's try and discern a bit better
what ConvNets, or convolutional neural networks,
actually are and why are they gaining so much popularity.
And they actually are gaining popularity.
You can see here a Google Trends comparison
I did just yesterday.
Here you can see that convolutional neural networks
are even taking over artificial neural networks,
so a massive increase
and this is just gonna keep going that way
because it is a very important field,
that is where all the things happen.
Such as self-driving cars,
how do they recognize people on the road,
how they recognize stops signs and things like that.
How is Facebook able to tag images or people in images,
and no only just,
remember, previously, years ago,
you had to tag people yourself,
then, it would recognize faces,
you'd had to add the names,
and now it just recognizes the faces
and adds the names at the same time,
well, that is what convolutional neural networks
are capable of.
And speaking of Facebook,
if Geoffrey Hinton is the godfather
of artificial neural networks and deep learning,
then Yann LeCun is the grandfather
of convolutional neural networks.
Yann LeCun is a student of Geoffrey Hinton's,
in fact, here you can see them together.
Geoffrey Hinton now is pioneering deep learning at Google,
Yann LeCun is the director
of Facebook Artificial Intelligence Research
and also a professor at NYU.
So, slowly we're, I love this party of the course,
slowly we're building up these names
or this picture of the profiles of the people
who are driving this field,
and in the next couple of parts
we'll get to know about a few more
and we'll have this whole Mafia, as they call themselves,
or Yann LeCun calls them,
Mafia or Conspiracy of Deep Learning
and you'll learn a bit more
about how this whole field developed.
Yeah, these are just some great, great people.
So, Yann LeCun, back in the '80s and the '90s,
made significant contributions
to the field of convolutional neural networks
and, as we will see throughout this course,
has been able to develop, or help the world develop,
something so extremely powerful.
So, moving on to how convolutional neural networks work.
It's very simple, it's very straightforward.
You have an input image,
it goes through the convolutional neural network,
and you have an output label
so it classifies that image as something,
like, as a cheetah or a bullet train or something else.
Now, kind of like going into a bit more detail.
For instance, after a neural network has been trained up
on certain images, on certain classified images,
or categorized the images that have been categorized prior,
after that you can give it,
let's say a neural network has been trained up
to recognize facial expressions, emotions,
you can give it a face of a smiling person,
not just a drawing of a face like this
but an actual face of a person smiling,
and it'll tell you that that person is happy.
And you can give it a face of a person that's frowning,
it'll tell you that the person is sad.
It can recognize these emotions.
And, as you can see, that's already very powerful
in terms of so many different applications
just off this one example you can think of right away.
And in both cases it will give you a probability,
it won't say with 100% that person's happy or sad,
it will be 99 or 98,
or maybe 80% when it's unclear of what's going on.
Just like we are, right?
Sometimes we can mistake things for what they're not,
or sometimes we can, sometimes it's just not clear
if the person is smiling or frowning
or if it's a dog or a cat
or if it's a train or a bullet train,
sometimes we haven't seen enough features.
It all goes down to features
because that's how we process visual information,
as we saw from the start of this tutorial.
But how does a neural network,
how is a neural network able to recognize these features?
Well, it all starts at the very basic level.
Let's say you have an image, you have two images,
one is a black and white image of two by two pixels,
and one is a colored image of two by two pixels.
Well, neural networks leverage the fact
that the black and white image is a two-dimensional array.
So the way we see it right now on the left
is just the visual representation,
just some kind of picture,
and for simplicity's sake it's just a two by two picture.
But in computer terms,
it's actually a two-dimensional array
with every single one of those pixels
having a value between zero and 255.
So that's eight bits of information,
two to the power of eight is 256,
so, therefore, the values are from zero to 255,
and that's the intensity of the color,
and, in this case, the color white.
So zero will be a completely black pixel,
255 will be a completely white pixel,
and between them you have the grayscale range
of possible options for this pixel.
And based on that information,
computers are able to then work with the image.
And that's kind of like the starting point,
that any image has a digital representation,
has a digital form
and those are just basically ones and zeros
that form a number of zero to 255 for every single pixel.
That's what the computer works with.
It doesn't actually work with colors or anything,
it works with the ones and zeros at the end of the day.
That's kind of like the foundation of it all.
And in a colored image
it's actually a three-dimensional array.
You've got a blue layer, a green layer and a red layer,
and that stands for RGB, red, green, blue,
and each one of those colors has its own intensity.
So, basically, a pixel has three values assigned to it,
each one of them is between zero and 255,
and, therefore, you can find out what this image,
what color exactly this pixel is
by combining those three values.
And, again, computers are going to be working with that.
So that's the foundation of it all,
that's the red channel, the green channel, the blue channel.
And finally let's have a look at, for instance,
an example, a very trivial example
of a smiling face in computer terms.
If we just really simplify things,
instead of having from zero to 255,
instead of having those values,
just so that we can understand things better
and really grasp the concepts,
we're going to say zero is white, one is black, right?
So we're just going to simplify things to the extreme
and you will see that that image
can be represented like that.
So the reason why we brought this up is
because we're going to,
all over in our intuition tutorials
we're going to structure on images like this,
which are very simple but at the same time
then have all of those concepts can transcend back to
the the zero to 256 range of values
and everything applies the same way there.
And the steps that we're going to be going through
with these images are:
step number one, convolution;
step number two, max pooling;
step number three, flattening;
and step number four, full connection.
And I can imagine that probably none of these words
mean much to you at the moment,
but by the end of this section of the course
you will understand them in great detail
and exactly what they're doing.
So, we'll get started on the next tutorial.
For now, the additional reading
that you might want to look into
is Yann LeCun's original paper
that gave the rise to convolutional neural networks,
it's called
Gradient-Based Learning Applied to Document Recognition.
You may have seen this image before
floating around the Internet, it is from that paper.
So if you wanna go back to the very beginnings
of how it all happened, where it all came from,
this is the paper to look into.
And I look forward to seeing you on the next tutorial.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.